Why do we fall Master Bruce?
%
All that is gold does not glitter,
Not all those who wander are lost;
The old that is strong does not wither,
Deep roots are not reached by the frost.
From the ashes a fire shall be woken,
A light from the shadows shall spring;
Renewed shall be blade that was broken,
The crownless again shall be king.
%
I know. It's all wrong. By rights we shouldn't even be here. But we are. 
  It's like in the great stories, Mr. Frodo. The ones that really mattered. 
  Full of darkness and danger, they were. And sometimes you didn't want to know the end. 

Because how could the end be happy? 
  How could the world go back to the way it was when so much bad had happened? 
But in the end, it's only a passing thing, this shadow. Even darkness must pass. 
  A new day will come. And when the sun shines it will shine out the clearer. 
Those were the stories that stayed with you. 
  That meant something, even if you were too small to understand why. 
But I think, Mr. Frodo, I do understand. I know now. 
  Folk in those stories had lots of chances of turning back, only they didn't. 
  They kept going. Because they were holding on to something.
%
Worrying is like paying interest on a debt you may never owe
%
"We are what we repeatedly do. Excellence, then, is not an act, but a habit."  
  -- Aristotle
%
"A ship is safe in harbor, but that's not what ships are for"
  
  -- William Shedd
%
"If the highest aim of a captain were to preserve his ship,
  he would keep it in port forever."
  
  -- Thomas Aquinas
%
“It is not the critic who counts; 
  not the man who points out how the strong man stumbles, 
  or where the doer of deeds could have done them better. 

The credit belongs to the man who is actually in the arena,
  whose face is marred by dust and sweat and blood, who strives valiantly; 
  who errs and comes short again and again; 
  because there is not effort without error and shortcomings; 
  but who does actually strive to do the deed; 
  who knows the great enthusiasm, the great devotion, 
  who spends himself in a worthy cause, 
  who at the best knows in the end the triumph of high achievement 
  and who at the worst, if he fails, at least he fails while daring greatly. 

So that his place shall never be with those cold and timid souls 
  who know neither victory nor defeat.”
  
  -- Theodore Roosevelt
%
To live life, you need problems. 
If you get everything you want the minute you want it, what's the point of living?
%
Suckin' at something is the first step to being sorta good at something
%
If you love a flower, don’t pick it up. 
  Because if you pick it up it dies and it ceases to be what you love. 
So if you love a flower, let it be. 
  Love is not about possession. Love is about appreciation.
  
  -- Osho
%
"I've missed more than 9000 shots in my career. 
I've lost almost 300 games.
26 times, I've been trusted to take the game winning shot and missed.
I've failed over and over and over again in my life. 
And that is why I succeed"
  
  -- Michael Jordan
%
"Never forget what you are. The rest of the world will not. 
Wear it like armor and it can never be used to hurt you." 
  -- Tyrion Lannister
%
Don't tell me that the sky is the limit, 
    when there are footprints on the moon
%
When you do something right, people won't think you've done anything at all
%
"People who drink 'light' beer don't like the taste of beer; 
  they just like to pee a lot"

-- Capital Brewery, Middleton, WI
%
"I stopped being afraid when my first venture failed and the sky didn't fall."
%
"Courage is not having the strength to go on; 
  it is going on when you don't have the strength." 
  
  -- Teddy Roosevelt
%
The best way to get what you want is to deserve what you want 
  
  -- Charlie Munger
%
"There is nothing noble in being superior to your fellow man,
  true nobility is being superior to your former self"

  -- Ernest Hemingway
%
"The only time you look in your neighbor's bowl is to make sure they have enough."
  -- Louis C.K.
%
"How lucky I am to have something that makes saying goodbye so hard"
  -- Winnie the Pooh
%
"Fairytales are more than true:
not because they tell us that dragons exist,
but because they tell us that dragons can be beaten."

  -- G.K. Chesterton
%
“I wish it need not have happened in my time,” said Frodo.

“So do I,” 
said Gandalf, 
“and so do all who live to see such times. 
But that is not for them to decide. All we have to decide 
is what to do with the time that is given us.”
%
Go out into the world and do well,
  but more importantly, go out into the world and do good.
%
Better to light one candle than curse the darkness.
%
I think one of the things that really separates 
  us from the high primates is that we’re tool builders. 

I read a study that measured the efficiency of locomotion 
for various species on the planet. 
The condor used the least energy to move a kilometer. 
  And, humans came in with a rather unimpressive showing, 
  about a third of the way down the list. 
  It was not too proud a showing for the crown of creation. 
  So, that didn’t look so good. 

But, then somebody at Scientific American had the insight 
  to test the efficiency of locomotion for a man on a bicycle. 
  And, a man on a bicycle, a human on a bicycle, blew the condor away, 
  completely off the top of the charts.

And that’s what a computer is to me. 

What a computer is to me 
  is it’s the most remarkable tool that we’ve ever come up with, 
  and it’s the equivalent of a bicycle for our minds.”

  -- Steve Jobs
%
Don't ask for a lighter load, ask for a stronger back.
%
"An algorithm must be seen to be believed"
  -- Donald Knuth
%
"If you optimize everything, you will always be unhappy."
  -- Donald Knuth
%
"The whole thing that makes a mathematician’s life worthwhile 
  is that he gets the grudging admiration of three or four colleagues."

 -- Donald Knuth
%
"For a number of years I have been familiar with the observation 
 that the quality of programmers is a decreasing function of the 
 density of go to statements in the programs they produce. 
 More recently I discovered why the use of the go to statement has 
 such disastrous effects, and I became convinced that the go to statement 
 should be abolished from all "higher level" programming languages."

 -- Edsger W Dijkstra
%
"A convincing demonstration of correctness being impossible 
 as long as the mechanism is regarded as a black box, 
 our only hope lies in not regarding the mechanism as a black box."

  -- Edsger W. Dijkstra
%
"The competent programmer is fully aware of the 
 strictly limited size of his own skull; therefore 
 he approaches the programming task in full humility, 
 and among other things he avoids clever tricks 
 like the plague."
  -- Edsger W. Dijkstra
%
"Write a paper promising salvation, 
 make it a 'structured' something 
 or a 'virtual' something, 
 or 'abstract', 'distributed' or 'higher-order' or 'applicative' 
 and you can almost be certain of having started a new cult."

 -- Edsger W. Dijkstra
%
The major cause [of the software crisis] 
is that the machines have become several 
orders of magnitude more powerful! To put 
it quite bluntly: as long as there were no 
machines, programming was no problem at 
all; when we had a few weak computers, 
programming became a mild problem, and now 
we have gigantic computers, programming has 
become an equally gigantic problem. In this 
sense the electronic industry has not solved 
a single problem, it has only created them, 
it has created the problem of using its products.

  -- Edsger W. Dijkstra
%
The use of COBOL cripples the mind; 
  its teaching should, therefore, be regarded as a criminal offense

  -- Edsger W. Dijkstra
%
APL is a mistake, carried through to perfection. 
 It is the language of the future for the programming 
 techniques of the past: it creates a new generation of coding bums.

 - Edsger W. Dijkstra
%
It is practically impossible to teach good programming 
 to students that have had a prior exposure to BASIC: 
 as potential programmers they are mentally mutilated 
 beyond hope of regeneration.

 Edsger W. Dijkstra
%
A confusion of even longer standing came from the fact 
that the unprepared included the electronic engineers 
that were supposed to design, build and maintain the 
machines. The job was actually beyond the electronic 
technology of the day, and, as a result, the question 
of how to get and keep the physical equipment more or 
less in working condition became in the early days the 
all-overriding concern. As a result, the topic became – 
primarily in the USA – prematurely known as 
'computer science' – which, actually, is like referring 
to surgery as 'knife science' – and it was firmly implanted 
in people's minds that computing science is about machines 
and their peripheral equipment. Quod non [Latin: "Which is not true"]. 
We now know that electronic technology has no more to 
contribute to computing than the physical equipment. We 
now know that programmable computer is no more and no less 
than an extremely handy device for realizing any conceivable 
mechanism without changing a single wire, and that the core 
challenge for computing science is hence a conceptual one, 
viz., what (abstract) mechanisms we can conceive without 
getting lost in the complexities of our own making.

 -- Edsger W. Dijkstra
%
"As economics is known as "The Miserable Science", 
 software engineering should be known as "The Doomed Discipline", 
 doomed because it cannot even approach its goal since its 
 goal is self-contradictory. (...) Software engineering has 
 accepted as its charter "How to program if you cannot."
  -- Edsger W. Dijkstra
%
"A picture may be worth a thousand words, 
  a formula is worth a thousand pictures"
 -- Edsger W. Dijkstra
%
"The problem with object-oriented languages is they’ve got all this 
 implicit environment that they carry around with them. You wanted 
 a banana but what you got was a gorilla holding the banana and the entire jungle."
  -- Joe Armstrong, creator of Erlang
%
"If a feature is sometimes dangerous, 
 and there is a better option, 
 then always use the better option."
  -- Douglas Crockford, author of JavaScript: The Good Parts
%
"Simplicity is prerequisite for reliability."
  -- Edsger W. Dijkstra, computer scientist and educator
%
"The computing scientist's main challenge 
 is not to get confused by the complexities of his own making."
  -- E. W. Dijkstra
%
"There are two ways of constructing a software design: 
  One way is to make it so simple that there are obviously 
  no deficiencies and the other way is to 
  make it so complicated that there are no obvious deficiencies."
  -- C.A.R. Hoare, The 1980 ACM Turing Award Lecture
%
"Sometimes, the elegant implementation is just a function. 
 Not a method. Not a class. Not a framework. Just a function."
  -- John Carmack, creator of DOOM 
    (https://twitter.com/ID_AA_Carmack/status/53512300451201024)
%
"Gear is the ultimate procrastination."
  -- Max Joseph, filmmaker
%
"Debugging is twice as hard as writing the code in the first place. 
 Therefore, if you write the code as cleverly as possible, 
 you are, by definition, not smart enough to debug it."
  -- Brian W. Kernighan & P. J. Plauger, 
    authors of The Elements of Programming Style
%
"We could, for instance, begin with cleaning up our 
 language by no longer calling a bug a bug but by 
 calling it an error. It is much more honest because 
 it squarely puts the blame where it belongs, viz. 
 with the programmer who made the error. The animistic 
 metaphor of the bug that maliciously sneaked in while 
 the programmer was not looking is intellectually dishonest 
 as it disguises that the error is the programmer's own creation. 
 The nice thing of this simple change of vocabulary is that it has 
 such a profound effect: while, before, a program with only one bug 
 used to be "almost correct", afterwards a program with an error is 
 just "wrong" (because in error)."
  -- E. W. Dijkstra, 
    http://www.cs.utexas.edu/users/EWD/transcriptions/EWD10xx/EWD1036.html
%
"A program that produces incorrect results 
	twice as fast is infinitely slower."
  -- John Osterhout
%
"She was the first machine man built that assisted 
 the power of his brain instead of the strength of his arm."
  -- Rear Admiral Grace Murray Hopper, speaking about the Mark I
%
"…what was really required was a description of 
 the data and a statement of the relationships 
 between the data sets. … We must state 
 relationships, not procedures."
  -- Rear Admiral Grace Murray Hopper, 
    speaking of The Language Structures Group
%
"[The Analytical Engine] might act 
 upon other things besides number, 
 were objects found whose mutual 
 fundamental relations could be 
 expressed by those of the abstract 
 science of operations … the engine 
 might compose elaborate and scientific 
 pieces of music of any degree of complexity or extent."
  -- Ada Lovelace, 1842
%
"Software during the early days … was 
 regarded as an art and as magic, not 
 a science. I had always believed that 
 both art and science were involved in 
 its creation, but at that time most 
 thought otherwise. … thus I began to 
 use the term “software engineering” … 
 It was an ongoing joke for a long time."
  -- Margaret Hamilton, Director of Apollo Flight Computer Programming: 
    https://medium.com/@verne/margaret-hamilton-the-engineer-who-took-the-apollo-to-the-moon-7d550c73d3fa
%
"So what I said in that talk was: 
 When we define a subtype, it ought 
 to have the same behavior as the 
 supertype, as far as anybody using 
 it could tell. A very simple idea, 
 but nobody had said that before. 
 This is known now as the Liskov Substitution Principle
 —it developed a life of its own! [laughs.]"
  -- Barbara Liskov, computer scientist, on OOPSLA (1987): 
    http://ethw.org/Oral-History:Barbara_Liskov_(2001)
%
"When my students leave, I mourn."
  -- Barbara Liskov, computer scientist: 
    http://ethw.org/Oral-History:Barbara_Liskov_(2001)
%
"From then on, when anything went wrong 
   with a computer, we said it had bugs in it."
  -- Rear Admiral Grace Murray Hopper, 
    on the extraction of a moth from the Mark II
%
"Granted that the actual 
 mechanism is unerring in 
 its processes, the cards 
 may give it wrong orders."
  -- Ada Lovelace
%
"The best way to get the right answer on the Internet 
 is not to ask a question, it's to post the wrong answer."
  -- attributed to Ward Cunningham, quoted as Cunningham's Law
%
"Some people prefer not to commingle the functional, 
 lambda-calculus part of a language with the parts that do side effects. 
 It seems they believe in the separation of Church and State."
  -- Guy Steele, coauthor of the Lambda Papers.
%
"Thus, programs must be written for people to read, 
  and only incidentally for machines to execute."
  -- Hal Abelson, SICP
%
"Functional programmer: 
  (noun) One who names variables 'x', names functions 'f', 
	     and names code patterns 'zygohistomorphic prepromorphism'"
  -- James Iry
%
"The most depressing thing about life as a programmer, 
 I think, is if you’re faced with a chunk of code that 
 either someone else wrote or, worse still, you wrote 
 yourself but no longer dare to modify. That’s depressing."
  -- Simon Peyton Jones
%
"The explicit teaching of thinking 
 is no trivial task, but who said 
 that the teaching of programming is? 

 In our terminology, the more explicitly 
 thinking is taught, the more of a 
 scientist the programmer will become."
  -- Edsger Dijkstra
%
"A parser for things / Is a function from strings / To lists of pairs / Of things and strings"
  -- Fritz Ruehr
%
"Every good idea will be discovered twice: 
 once by a logician and once by a computer scientist."
  -- Philip Wadler
%
"The functional programmer sounds 
 rather like a mediæval monk, 
 denying himself the pleasures of 
 life in the hope that it will make him virtuous."
  -- John Hughes, Why Functional Programming Matters
%
"It is not only not right, it is not even wrong."
  -- apocryphal, attributed to Wolfgang Pauli
%
"Precision diminishes the likelihood of truth, 
 but often increases the pragmatic value of a belief if it is true."
  -- Bertrand Russell
%
"Tonight I Can Write" by Pablo Neruda
Tonight I can write the saddest lines.

Write, for example, “The night is starry
and the blue stars shiver in the distance.”

The night wind revolves in the sky and sings.

Tonight I can write the saddest lines.
I loved her, and sometimes she loved me too.

Through nights like this one I held her in my arms.
I kissed her again and again under the endless sky.

She loved me sometimes, and I loved her too.
How could one not have loved her great still eyes.

Tonight I can write the saddest lines.
To think that I do not have her. To feel that I have lost her.

To hear the immense night, still more immense without her.
And the verse falls to the soul like dew to the pasture.

What does it matter that my love could not keep her.
The night is starry and she is not with me.

This is all. In the distance someone is singing. In the distance.
My soul is not satisfied that it has lost her.

My sight tries to find her as though to bring her closer.
My heart looks for her, and she is not with me.

The same night whitening the same trees.
We, of that time, are no longer the same.

I no longer love her, that’s certain, but how I loved her.
My voice tried to find the wind to touch her hearing.

Another’s. She will be another’s. As she was before my kisses.
Her voice, her bright body. Her infinite eyes.

I no longer love her, that’s certain, but maybe I love her.
Love is so short, forgetting is so long.

Because through nights like this one I held her in my arms
my soul is not satisfied that it has lost her.

Though this be the last pain that she makes me suffer
and these the last verses that I write for her."
%
"No Man Is An Island" by John Donne
No man is an island,
Entire of itself,
Every man is a piece of continent,
A part of the main.
If a clod be washed away by the sea,
Europe is the less.
As well as if a promontory were.
As well as if a manor of thy friend's
Or of thine own were:
Any man's death diminshes me,
Because I am involved in mankind,
And therefore never send to know for whom the bell tolls;
It tolls for thee.
%
"Still I Rise" by Maya Angelou
You may write me down in history
With your bitter, twisted lies,
You may trod me in the very dirt
But still, like dust, I'll rise.

Does my sassiness upset you?
Why are you beset with gloom?
’Cause I walk like I've got oil wells
Pumping in my living room.

Just like moons and like suns,
With the certainty of tides,
Just like hopes springing high,
Still I'll rise.

Did you want to see me broken?
Bowed head and lowered eyes?
Shoulders falling down like teardrops,
Weakened by my soulful cries?

Does my haughtiness offend you?
Don't you take it awful hard
’Cause I laugh like I've got gold mines
Diggin’ in my own backyard.

You may shoot me with your words,
You may cut me with your eyes,
You may kill me with your hatefulness,
But still, like air, I’ll rise.

Does my sexiness upset you?
Does it come as a surprise
That I dance like I've got diamonds
At the meeting of my thighs?

Out of the huts of history’s shame
I rise
Up from a past that’s rooted in pain
I rise
I'm a black ocean, leaping and wide,
Welling and swelling I bear in the tide.

Leaving behind nights of terror and fear
I rise
Into a daybreak that’s wondrously clear
I rise
Bringing the gifts that my ancestors gave,
I am the dream and the hope of the slave.
I rise
I rise
I rise.
%
"There Will Come Soft Rain" by Sara Teasdale
There will come soft rain and the smell of the ground,
And swallows circling with their shimmering sound;
And frogs in the pools singing at night,
And wild plum trees in tremulous white;
Robins will wear their feathery fire,
Whistling their whims on a low fence-wire;
And not one will know of the war, not one
Will care at last when it is done.
Not one would mind, neither bird nor tree,
If mankind perished utterly;
And Spring herself, when she woke at dawn
Would scarcely know that we were gone.
%
"O Captain! My Captain!" by Walt Whitman
O Captain! my Captain! our fearful trip is done;
The ship has weather’d every rack, the prize we sought is won;
The port is near, the bells I hear, the people all exulting,
While follow eyes the steady keel, the vessel grim and daring:
But O heart! heart! heart!
O the bleeding drops of red,
Where on the deck my Captain lies,
Fallen cold and dead.
O Captain! my Captain! rise up and hear the bells;
Rise up — for you the flag is flung — for you the bugle trills;
For you bouquets and ribbon’d wreaths — for you the shores a-crowding;
For you they call, the swaying mass, their eager faces turning;
Here Captain! dear father!
This arm beneath your head;
It is some dream that on the deck,
You’ve fallen cold and dead.
My Captain does not answer, his lips are pale and still;
My father does not feel my arm, he has no pulse nor will;
The ship is anchor’d safe and sound, its voyage closed and done;
From fearful trip, the victor ship, comes in with object won; 20
Exult, O shores, and ring, O bells!
But I, with mournful tread,
Walk the deck my Captain lies,
Fallen cold and dead.
%
"Fire and Ice" by Robert Frost
Some say the world will end in fire,
Some say in ice.
From what I’ve tasted of desire
I hold with those who favor fire.
But if it had to perish twice,
I think I know enough of hate
To say that for destruction ice
Is also great
And would suffice.
%
"For You O Democracy" by Walt Whitman
Come, I will make the continent indissoluble,
I will make the most splendid race the sun ever shone upon,
I will make divine magnetic lands,
                   With the love of comrades,
                      With the life-long love of comrades.

I will plant companionship thick as trees along all the rivers of America, and along the shores of the great lakes, and all over the prairies,
I will make inseparable cities with their arms about each other’s necks,
                   By the love of comrades,
                      By the manly love of comrades.

For you these from me, O Democracy, to serve you ma femme!
For you, for you I am trilling these songs.
%
"The Spring" by Thomas Carew
Now that the winter's gone, the earth hath lost
Her snow-white robes, and now no more the frost
Candies the grass, or casts an icy cream
Upon the silver lake or crystal stream;
But the warm sun thaws the benumbed earth,
And makes it tender; gives a sacred birth
To the dead swallow; wakes in hollow tree
The drowsy cuckoo, and the humble-bee.
Now do a choir of chirping minstrels bring
In triumph to the world the youthful Spring.
The valleys, hills, and woods in rich array
Welcome the coming of the long'd-for May.
Now all things smile, only my love doth lour;
Nor hath the scalding noonday sun the power
To melt that marble ice, which still doth hold
Her heart congeal'd, and makes her pity cold.
The ox, which lately did for shelter fly
Into the stall, doth now securely lie
In open fields; and love no more is made
By the fireside, but in the cooler shade
Amyntas now doth with his Chloris sleep
Under a sycamore, and all things keep
Time with the season; only she doth carry
June in her eyes, in her heart January.
%
"Hope is the thing with feathers" by Emily Dickinson
“Hope” is the thing with feathers -
That perches in the soul -
And sings the tune without the words -
And never stops - at all -

And sweetest - in the Gale - is heard -
And sore must be the storm -
That could abash the little Bird
That kept so many warm -

I’ve heard it in the chillest land -
And on the strangest Sea -
Yet - never - in Extremity,
It asked a crumb - of me.
%
"Valentine" by Donald Britton
At first, we had ways of talking
That filled up the evening
Until some things could be said. It was a made-up
Situation in which lives could be lost.
Whatever that was now grows inside
Our bodies—a spongy, pulpy cell—
Causing pieces of paper we hold
In our hands to appear

And disappear. All I ask
Is to take me away from this place,
To another place, very much like
This place, where we can meet
And six months later
Be married. You laughed and went with me.
%
"First Kiss" by Kim Addonizio
Afterwards you had that drunk, drugged look
my daughter used to get, when she had let go
of my nipple, her mouth gone slack and her eyes
turned vague and filmy, as though behind them
the milk was rising up to fill her
whole head, that would loll on the small
white stalk of her neck so I would have to hold her
closer, amazed at the sheer power
of satiety, which was nothing like the needing
to be fed, the wild flailing and crying until she fastened
herself to me and made the seal tight
between us, and sucked, drawing the liquid down
and out of my body; no, this was the crowning
moment, this giving of herself, knowing
she could show me how helpless
she was—that’s what I saw, that night when you
pulled your mouth from mine and
leaned back against a chain-link fence,
in front of a burned-out church: a man
who was going to be that vulnerable,
that easy and impossible to hurt.
%
"The Look" by Sara Teasdale
Strephon kissed me in the spring,
Robin in the fall,
But Colin only looked at me
And never kissed at all.

Strephon's kiss was lost in jest,
Robin's lost in play,
But the kiss in Colin's eyes
Haunts me night and day.
%
"Spring in War-Time" by Sara Teasdale
I feel the spring far off, far off,
    The faint, far scent of bud and leaf—
Oh, how can spring take heart to come
    To a world in grief,
    Deep grief?

The sun turns north, the days grow long,
    Later the evening star grows bright—
How can the daylight linger on
    For men to fight,
    Still fight?

The grass is waking in the ground,
    Soon it will rise and blow in waves—
How can it have the heart to sway
    Over the graves,
    New graves?

Under the boughs where lovers walked
    The apple-blooms will shed their breath—
But what of all the lovers now
    Parted by Death,
    Grey Death?
%
"Defeated" by Sophie Jewett
When the last fight is lost, the last sword broken;
The last call sounded, the last order spoken;
When from the field where braver hearts lie sleeping,
Faint, and athirst, and blinded, I come creeping,
With not one waving shred of palm to bring you,
With not one splendid battle-song to sing you,
O Love, in my dishonor and defeat,
Your measureless compassion will be sweet.
%
"A Drinking Song" by William Butler Yeats
Wine comes in at the mouth
And love comes in at the eye;
That’s all we shall know for truth
Before we grow old and die.
I lift the glass to my mouth,
I look at you, and I sigh.
%
"Union Square" by Sara Teasdale
With the man I love who loves me not,
I walked in the street-lamps' flare;
We watched the world go home that night
In a flood through Union Square.

I leaned to catch the words he said
That were light as a snowflake falling;
Ah well that he never leaned to hear
The words my heart was calling.

And on we walked and on we walked
Past the fiery lights of the picture shows —
Where the girls with thirsty eyes go by
On the errand each man knows.

And on we walked and on we walked,
At the door at last we said good-bye;
I knew by his smile he had not heard
My heart's unuttered cry.

With the man I love who loves me not
I walked in the street-lamps' flare —
But oh, the girls who ask for love
In the lights of Union Square.
%
"A Girl" by Michael Field
A Girl,
     Her soul a deep-wave pearl
Dim, lucent of all lovely mysteries;
     A face flowered for heart’s ease,
     A brow’s grace soft as seas
     Seen through faint forest-trees:
     A mouth, the lips apart,
Like aspen-leaflets trembling in the breeze
     From her tempestuous heart.
     Such: and our souls so knit,
     I leave a page half-writ —
           The work begun
Will be to heaven’s conception done,
           If she come to it.
%
"The Voice" by Sara Teasdale
Atoms as old as stars,
Mutation on mutation,
Millions and millions of cells
Dividing, yet still the same;
From air and changing earth,
From ancient Eastern Rivers,
From turquoise tropic seas,
Unto myself I came.

My spirit, like my flesh,
Sprang from a thousand sources,
From cave-man, hunter and shepherd,
From Karnak, Cyprus, Rome;
The living thoughts in me
Spring from dead men and women
Forgotten time out of mind
And many as bubbles of foam.

Here for a moment's space
Into the light out of darkness,
The many in one are mingled,
Finding words with my breath;
Like a great voice in me
I hear them shout:  "Forever
Seek for Beauty - she only
Fights with man against death."
%
"She Who Could Bind You" by Sara Teasdale

    She who could bind you
      Could bind fire to a wall;
    She who could hold you
      Could hold a waterfall;
    She who could keep you
      Could keep the wind from blowing
    On a warm spring night
      With a low moon glowing
%
"One Hundred Love Sonnets: XVII" by Pablo Neruda
I don’t love you as if you were a rose of salt, topaz,
or arrow of carnations that propagate fire:
I love you as one loves certain obscure things,
secretly, between the shadow and the soul.

I love you as the plant that doesn’t bloom but carries
the light of those flowers, hidden, within itself,
and thanks to your love the tight aroma that arose
from the earth lives dimly in my body.

I love you without knowing how, or when, or from where,
I love you directly without problems or pride:
I love you like this because I don’t know any other way to love,
except in this form in which I am not nor are you,
so close that your hand upon my chest is mine,
so close that your eyes close with my dreams.
%
"Love Letter" by Nathalie Handal
I’d like to be a shrine, so I can learn from 
peoples’ prayers the story of hearts. 
I’d like to be a scarf so I can place it 
over my hair and understand other worlds. 
I’d like to be the voice of a soprano singer 
so I can move through all borders and see 
them vanish with every spell-­binding note. 
I’d like to be light so I illuminate the dark. 
I’d like to be water to fill bodies 
so we can gently float together indefinitely. 
I’d like to be a lemon, to be zest all the time, 
or an olive tree to shimmer silver on the earth. 
Most of all, I’d like to be a poem, 
to reach your heart and stay.
%
"The Hill We Climb" by Amanda Gorman
When day comes we ask ourselves,
where can we find light in this never-ending shade?
The loss we carry,
a sea we must wade
We've braved the belly of the beast
We've learned that quiet isn't always peace
And the norms and notions
of what just is
Isn't always just-ice
And yet the dawn is ours
before we knew it
Somehow we do it
Somehow we've weathered and witnessed
a nation that isn't broken
but simply unfinished
We the successors of a country and a time
Where a skinny Black girl
descended from slaves and raised by a single mother
can dream of becoming president
only to find herself reciting for one
And yes we are far from polished
far from pristine
but that doesn't mean we are
striving to form a union that is perfect
We are striving to forge a union with purpose
To compose a country committed to all cultures, colors, characters and
conditions of man
And so we lift our gazes not to what stands between us
but what stands before us
We close the divide because we know, to put our future first,
we must first put our differences aside
We lay down our arms
so we can reach out our arms
to one another
We seek harm to none and harmony for all
Let the globe, if nothing else, say this is true:
That even as we grieved, we grew
That even as we hurt, we hoped
That even as we tired, we tried
That we'll forever be tied together, victorious
Not because we will never again know defeat
but because we will never again sow division
Scripture tells us to envision
that everyone shall sit under their own vine and fig tree
And no one shall make them afraid
If we're to live up to our own time
Then victory won't lie in the blade
But in all the bridges we've made
That is the promise to glade
The hill we climb
If only we dare
It's because being American is more than a pride we inherit,
it's the past we step into
and how we repair it
We've seen a force that would shatter our nation
rather than share it
Would destroy our country if it meant delaying democracy
And this effort very nearly succeeded
But while democracy can be periodically delayed
it can never be permanently defeated
In this truth
in this faith we trust
For while we have our eyes on the future
history has its eyes on us
This is the era of just redemption
We feared at its inception
We did not feel prepared to be the heirs
of such a terrifying hour
but within it we found the power
to author a new chapter
To offer hope and laughter to ourselves
So while once we asked,
how could we possibly prevail over catastrophe?
Now we assert
How could catastrophe possibly prevail over us?
We will not march back to what was
but move to what shall be
A country that is bruised but whole,
benevolent but bold,
fierce and free
We will not be turned around
or interrupted by intimidation
because we know our inaction and inertia
will be the inheritance of the next generation
Our blunders become their burdens
But one thing is certain:
If we merge mercy with might,
and might with right,
then love becomes our legacy
and change our children's birthright
So let us leave behind a country
better than the one we were left with
Every breath from my bronze-pounded chest,
we will raise this wounded world into a wondrous one
We will rise from the gold-limbed hills of the west,
we will rise from the windswept northeast
where our forefathers first realized revolution
We will rise from the lake-rimmed cities of the midwestern states,
we will rise from the sunbaked south
We will rebuild, reconcile and recover
and every known nook of our nation and
every corner called our country,
our people diverse and beautiful will emerge,
battered and beautiful
When day comes we step out of the shade,
aflame and unafraid
The new dawn blooms as we free it
For there is always light,
if only we're brave enough to see it
If only we're brave enough to be it
%
"Travels Far" by Tracy K Smith
What you gave -
brief tokens of regard,
soft words uttered
barely heard,
the smile gimpsed
from a passing car.

Through stations
and years, through
the veined chambers
of a stranger's heart -
what you gave
travels far.
%
"It is possible to commit no mistakes
and still lose. That is not a weakness;
that is life."
 - Jean-Luc Picard
%
